
May 29, 2020

Contact: Jodie Underwood

Phone Number: (206) 553-1162

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Two Whatcom County men charged in fentanyl drug distribution scheme
Five month investigation alleges distribution of fentanyl-tainted counterfeit opioid pills with distinctive M-30 markings
Large quantity of M-30 pills believed to contain fentanyl and trafficked in the investigation
Large quantity of M-30 pills believed to contain fentanyl
Handling of fentanyl pills can be dangerous, as depicted on this glove
Handling of fentanyl pills can be dangerous, as depicted on this glove
SEATTLE - Two Bellingham, Washington, residents made their initial appearance today in U.S. District Court in Seattle following their arrest on May 28, 2020, for distributing fake oxycodone tablets tainted with fentanyl.  Troy J. Klander, 38, and Zachary D. Salas, 38, are charged with conspiracy to possess fentanyl with intent to distribute.  Both remain in custody following a five-month investigation of their drug trafficking activities.

“Even with the hurdles presented by the COVID-19 crisis, we were able to investigate and safely remove these suppliers of dangerous counterfeit pills,” said DEA Special Agent in Charge Keith Weis.  “These pills laced with fentanyl can be highly toxic when handled and are indiscriminately killing tens of thousands of people yearly in the U.S.  The identification and disruption of those involved in this illicit distribution chain remains a high priority for law enforcement at every level.”

According to the criminal complaint filed in the case, law enforcement used confidential sources and undercover officers to purchase the fentanyl laced pills from Klander and to identify Salas as a source of supply.  On May 28, 2020, a Drug Enforcement Administration-led task force executed search warrants at six locations in Whatcom County.  At one location, Salas refused to cooperate with law enforcement resulting in a one-hour standoff.  The standoff ended peacefully, and Salas was taken into custody.

“These counterfeit oxycodone pills, laced with unknown amounts of fentanyl, have proven deadly in our communities,” said U.S. Attorney Brian T. Moran.  “I commend the DEA agents and local law enforcement officers who continued this investigation despite the challenges presented by the COVID-19 lockdown.”

Over the course of the investigation law enforcement seized 500 counterfeit oxycodone pills tainted with fentanyl, cocaine, heroin, and crystal methamphetamine, as well as a stolen gun and more than $100,000 in cash.

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl is punishable by up to 20 years in prison.

The charges contained in the complaint are only allegations.  A person is presumed innocent unless and until he or she is proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt in a court of law.

The investigation is being led by DEA with significant assistance from the Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office Gang and Drug Task Force.  The searches yesterday involved the DEA Seattle Special Response Team (SRT), Whatcom County Sheriff’s Office SWAT, Bellingham Police Department SWAT, Washington State Patrol SWAT, Homeland Security Investigation, Customs and Border Protection Air and Marine Unit, Skagit County Interlocal Drug Enforcement Unit (SCIDEU), and Snohomish Regional Gang Drug Task Force.