October 02, 2019

Contact: Erin Mulvey

Phone Number: (212) 337-2906

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Staten Island brothers plead guilty to opioid distribution conspiracies
Defendants conspired with others to distribute heroin and oxycodone from their Staten Island homes
BROOKLYN, N.Y. –   Earlier today, in federal court in Brooklyn, Joseph Calabria pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute oxycodone, and to being a felon in possession of a firearm. Last week, on Sept. 23, 2019, his brother, Michael Calabria, pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute and possess with intent to distribute heroin. When sentenced, the defendants each face up to 20 years’ imprisonment for the drug conspiracies, and Joseph Calabria faces up to 10 years’ imprisonment for the firearms offense. Both guilty pleas were entered before United States Magistrate Judge Steven L. Tiscione.

Richard P. Donoghue, United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Ray Donovan, special agent in charge, Drug Enforcement Administration, New York Division, Peter C. Fitzhugh, special agent-in-charge, Homeland Security Investigations, New York, and James P. O’Neill, commissioner, New York City Police Department, announced the guilty pleas.

“Using their Staten Island homes as opioid supermarkets, the defendants distributed highly addictive and potentially lethal drugs on a daily basis,” said Donoghue. “The Eastern District and our law enforcement partners will continue working tirelessly to hold drug dealers accountable for contributing to the opioid epidemic, which has caused profound human suffering on Staten Island and elsewhere.” Donoghue expressed his gratitude to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, for its assistance during the investigation.

Beginning in September 2016, with court authorization, law enforcement agents intercepted narcotics-related telephone communications between the defendants and others. In his conversations, Michael Calabria conspired with others to distribute heroin, and then distributed it from his residence. Some of the heroin seized during the investigation contained fentanyl. During Joseph Calabria’s intercepted conversations, he conspired with others to distribute oxycodone, negotiated the purchase of thousands of oxycodone pills and distributed oxycodone pills from his residence.

The government’s case is being prosecuted by Assistant United States Attorney Alicia N. Washington.

The Defendants:
JOSEPH CALABRIA
Age: 55
Staten Island, New York

MICHAEL CALABRIA
Age: 51
Staten Island, New York