May 28, 2020

Contact: Public Information Officer

Phone Number: (571) 362-2887

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thirteen individuals charged for their involvement in six fatal opioid overdoses across Hillborough, Pasco, and Pinellas Counties
TAMPA, Fla. – A federal grand jury returned six indictments and one arrest pursuant to a criminal complaint charging 13 individuals for their roles in six fatal opioid overdoses. The indictments also notify the defendants that the United States intends to forfeit any assets that are alleged to be traceable proceeds of the offense. The indictments were returned on May 20 and 27, 2020. The arrest pursuant to the criminal complaint took place on March 30, 2020.        

INDICTMENT 1

Name

Age, Residence

Charges and Maximum Penalties

Jared Collins

26, Wesley Chapel

Possession with the intent to distribute and distribution of fentanyl resulting in death; possession with the intent to distribute and distribution of fentanyl.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the conduct resulting in death; and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the other offense.

INDICTMENT 2

Kimberly Fleer

27, Seffner

Possession with the intent to distribute and distribution of fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; distribution and possession with the intent to distribute heroin and fentanyl.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the conduct resulting in death; and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the other counts.

INDICTMENT 3

Justin Lebarron

27, New Port Richey

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl and methamphetamine resulting in death; distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and methamphetamine resulting in death; possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl; maintaining a drug premise.

 

Mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the counts alleging death and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the remaining counts.

Brittney Smith

29, New Port Richey

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl and methamphetamine resulting in death; distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and methamphetamine resulting in death; maintaining a drug premise.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the counts alleging death and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the remaining count.

Vincent Sanchez

34, New Port Richey

One count of being an accessory after the fact to a drug conspiracy and drug distribution resulting in death.

 

Maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison.

Michael Phelps

44, Port Richey

One count of being an accessory after the fact to a drug conspiracy and drug distribution resulting in death.

 

Maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison.

Krystin Horner

31, Port Richey

One count of being an accessory after the fact to a drug conspiracy and drug distribution resulting in death.

 

Maximum penalty of 15 years in federal prison.

INDICTMENT 4

Thomas Lynch

57, Riverview

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; possession with the intent to distribute and distribution of heroin and fentanyl.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the conspiracy; and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the other counts.

Shawn Ryno

31, Riverview

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; distribution and possession with intent to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for both counts.

Christina O’Brien

36, Riverview

Conspiracy to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for both counts.

INDICTMENT 5

Isaiah Reed

31, Tampa

Distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and heroin.

 

Maximum term of 20 years in federal prison.

INDICTMENT 6

Jarran Riley

 

34, Clearwater

 

Distribution and possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl and heroin resulting in death; possession with the intent to distribute and distribution of fentanyl and cocaine.

 

Minimum mandatory term of 20 years, up to life, in federal prison for the conduct resulting in death; and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for the other counts.

ARRESTED BY CRIMINAL COMPLAINT

Jack Rice

35, St. Petersburg

Possession with the intent to distribute fentanyl, cocaine, and methamphetamine; possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.

 

Maximum term of 20 years in federal prison.

The cases against Collins (Indictment 1), Lebarron et al (Indictment 3), Rice (Criminal Complaint), and Riley (Indictment 6) were investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration Tampa District Office, the United States Secret Service, the Pinellas County Sheriff’s Office, the Pasco Sheriff’s Office, the Clearwater Police Department, the Pinellas Park Police Department, and the St. Petersburg Police Department as part of an Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) investigation.  

The cases against Fleer (Indictment 2), Lynch et al (Indictment 4), and Reed (Indictment 5) were investigated by the Department of Homeland Security and the Hillsborough County Sheriff’s Office as part of the Middle District of Florida’s anti-opioid strategy to combat opioid trafficking and abuse.         

All cases will be prosecuted by the United States Attorney’s Office for the Middle District of Florida. 